The Joe Rogan experience.
Did you read the email leaks? Do the emails from intersect sick and yeah.
All the,
the different discussions that they had about their concerns that they were
responsible for this through gain of function research.
They applied for a grant to specifically do a fear,
to insert a fear and Cleveland site,
which is that particular part of the virus that, that raised so much concern.
Yeah. I mean, look, the thing is like this gets back,
this gets back to the same thing. I think we're dancing around a little bit,
which is, I don't know sometimes what to do with this. It's highly suspicious.
I think of this sometimes the way I think about my teenage kids.
They're not telling me everything here now,
do I automatically assume they're totally guilty of everything I think they're
guilty of or is there something else going on here? You know,
I think China has not w it,
part of being prepared in my world, war C book is, is that, is that, um,
we have to have a,
a world health organization that's actually empowered to be able to do things.
It's just, it's too beholden, I think to China. And,
and w there was a letter that came out from Peter dash in February of last year
that he wrote in the Lancet,
along with a bunch of other people saying this thing, uh, you know,
this is ridiculous to suggest that this had somehow been bio-engineered in the
lab, you know.
And while the internal emails suggested that he had very different concerns.
That's, that's, that's worrisome. And I said that the P I said, Peter, this,
this is not making sense.
And what did he say? He.
Said, Hey, there's no evidence that the virus ever existed in this lab.
There's no evidence that it leaked out because they.
Destroyed a lot of evidence. They, they.
Th th this is concerning.
Deleted. And how many, how many,
how much evidence did they delete in 2019? I mean, some stunning amounts.
Well, the entire database went down exactly. Now. I said, what I said to him,
you were a part of the, who investigation. Did you see the database? Now?
It's been over a year later. He said, no. When I said,
is that not of concern to you? He said, look, he goes, it was a public database.
They were worried about hacking. And so that's why they took it down. I said,
if it was a public database, why were they worried about hacking? You know,
what were they, what were they trying to hide? You know? So I don't,
I don't know Joe, what to make of it. It's they there's clearly,
as you said earlier, I think he said where there's smoke. There's fire probably,
but can I say conclusively? No. And part of me thinks we may never know.
We don't have a system in place at a,
at a sort of global level to mandate that these things actually come to light.
We don't treat this. Like we treat department of defense issues. We don't treat,
you know, we, we should be thinking about this more from a defense standpoint,
rather than a public health preventive standpoint.
Interesting. Yeah. Yeah. Um,
when you see Fowchee being grilled by Ron Paul,
and he denies that they were doing gain of function research,
what are your thoughts on that?
Because by any definition that was gain of function, research, gain of function.
Research is taking a virus.
We should probably Google the exact definition, but what my, um,
impressionist gain of function means you are imparting new
ability to this virus to infect humans, right?
The idea is that you're juicing it up and making it more contagious, right.
And, and that type of research has been done. And in fact,
I think it wasn't 2015, I think, in the, in the Netherlands somewhere.
But if the NIH was,
was giving funding to EcoHealth Alliance and EcoHealth Alliance was
funding that kind of research,
I think [inaudible] is not being honest about that.
I think,
I think the NIH is clearly funding EcoHealth Alliance and EcoHealth Alliance is
clearly giving grants to Wuhan Institute of virology.
Here's how they answer the question. When I asked them,
including Francis Collins, who's the head of the NIH.
They S they define gain a function, research. This,
you have a known bad contagious pathogen,
and you're going to essentially do a, you know,
use the backbone of another known bad pathogen. And you're,
you're going to splice them together. Essentially, you're taking one thing that,
you know, to be bad and contagious and splicing it with something else that,
you know, to be bad, that is,
you're expecting this to be worse than what you started with.
If you're taking a novel virus and you don't know how contagious this is,
and you're basically saying, look, I want to,
I want to isolate the spike protein on this new virus.
I'm going to put it on the backbone of something I do know.
And make it contagious to humans. We'll.
See how it behaves at that point.
Does this actually start to behave as something super contagious or not? The,
the, the possibility is that it could, but they're not sure.
So this is nuanced. And, you know, a lot of people have taken issue with,
and including scientists who work in the field,
but the strict definition is that you got to know for gain of function research,
you know, that it's gonna lead to gain a functions.
Maybe the problem is using the term gain of function. Yeah.
If we instead abandoned any sort of a
nomenclature that might be problematic and say,
were they doing experiments to make viruses more contagious to people?
The answer would be yes.
Yeah.
Were they doing experiments that could lead to viruses being more contained?
Yes. Yes. I think that that's right. Um, that is,
that is research that is done to try and figure out. I mean,
it's a lot of these pathogens. They, they examine their,
that they're not contagious.
They put the spike protein and they put some component of the virus onto the
backbone of a known thing, and it doesn't do much. So they say, well,
we don't have to worry about this,
but it could turn into a situation where you take a component of a new virus.
You put it on the backbone of a known virus,
and it does lead to something much more contagious.
And that's what a lot of people are concerned about here. I mean, you know,
there was the part of those emails, as you know, Joe were,
were emails that were sent to Fowchee January of last year,
where Christian Anderson raised this concern.
He subsequently wrote a paper saying, Hey, those changes that we saw,
I thought that that was clear evidence of bioengineering,
but now I've seen evidence of those same abnormalities in existing naturally
occurring viruses. So now I don't think that's, that's the problem,
but it's just, it's, it's going back and forth. And, you know, frankly,
we may never know for sure. What's.
The entire episode for free, only on Spotify.